you
this structure is about the
discriminative classifiers for texture
categorization in this lecture we're
going to continue talking about how to
do tax of a categorization and cover
discriminative approaches this is a
slide that you have seen from the
discussion of naive Bayes classifier
where we have shown that although naive
Bayes classifier tries to model the
generation of text data from each
categories we can have to use Bayes rule
to eventually rewrite the scoring
function as you see on this slide and
this scoring function is basically a
weight the combination of a lot of word
features where the feature values are
what counts and the feature weights are
the log of probability ratios of the
world given by two distributions here
now this kind of scoring function can be
actually a general scoring function
where we can in general represent text
data as a feature vector of course the
features don't have to be all the words
and the features can be other signals
that we want to use and we mention that
this is precisely similar to logistic
regression so in this lecture we're
going to introduce some discriminative
classifiers they try to model the
conditional distribution of labels given
that they are directly rather than using
Bayes law to compute that indirectly as
we've seen in nine days so the general
idea of logistical regression is to
model the dependency of the binary
response variable Y on some predictors
that are denoted as X so here we have
also changed the notation to X for
future values you may recall in the
previous slide we have used Fi to
represent the future values and
here we use the notation of X Factor
which is more common when we introduce
such machine learning algorithms so X is
our input it's a vector and with M
features and each feature has a value X
sub I here and our goal is model the
dependency of this binary response
purple on all these features
so in our categorization problem we have
two categories mrs. theta 1 theta 2 and
we can use the Y value to denote the two
categories when y is 1 it means the
category of the document is the first
class see that one now the goal here is
the model of the conditional probability
of Y given X directly as opposed to
model the generation of x and y as in
the case of 9th base and another
advantage of this kind of approach is
that it would allow many other features
than work to be used in this vector
since we're not modeling the generation
of this factor we can plug in any
signals that we want so this is really
advantageous for doing text
accreditation so more specifically the
English Civil repression the assumed the
functional form of y depending on X is
the following
and this is very close closely related
to the log or log odds that I introduced
in the nice base or log of probability
ratio of the two categories that you
have seen on the previous slide so that
this is what I meant right so in the
case of nice base we computed this by
using baseball and eventually we have
reached a formula that looks like this
that looks like this but here we
actually would assume explicitly that we
would model our probability of y given
directly as a function of these features
so most specifically we assume that log
of the ratio of probability of y equals
1 and the probability of y equals 0 is a
function of X and so it's a function of
X and it's a linear combination of these
feature values controlled by beta values
and since we know that the probability
of y equals 0 is 1 minus probability of
y equals 1 and this can be also written
in this way so this is a log odds ratio
here and so English is equal regression
we basically assume that the probability
of y equals 1 comma X is dependent on
this linear combination of all these
features so it's just one of the many
possible ways of assuming that the
dependency but this particular form has
been quite useful and it has also has
some nice properties so if we rewrite
this question to actually Express the
probability of Y given X in terms of X
by taking by getting rid of the
logarithm and we get this functional
form and this is called a logistic
function it's a transformation of X into
y as you see on the right side here so
that the exes will be mapped into a
range of values from 0 to 1.0 you can
see and that that's precisely what we
want since we have a probability here
and the function form looks like this so
so this is the base variety of logistic
regression and it's a very useful
classifier that can be used to do a lot
of classification tasks including text
predation so as in all cases of moral we
would be interested in estimating the
parameters and in fact in all the
machine learning programs once you set
up the model set about objective
function to model the classifier then
the next step is to compute the
parameter values in general adjust these
parameter values optimize the
performance of classifier on the
training data so in our case let's
assume we have the training data the
training data here
Xin y:i and each pair is basically a
feature vector of X and a known label
for that X Y Z either 1 or 0 so in our
case we are interested in maximizing
this conditional likelihood the
conditional likelihood here is basically
to model Y given the observe the X so
it's not like it's not like modeling X
but rather within the model this note
that this is the conditional probability
of Y given X and this is also precisely
what we want and for classification now
so the likelihood function would be just
a product over all the training cases
and in each case this is the model
probability of observing this particular
training case so given a particular X I
how likely we'll observe the
corresponding Y I of course why I could
be 1 or 0 and in fact the function form
here would vary depending on whether y
sub I is 1 or 0 if it's 1 will be taking
this form and that's basically the
logistic regression function but what
about it if it's 0 well if it's 0 then
we have to use a different form and
that's this one
now how do we get this one well that's
just a one minus the probability of y
equals one right and you can easier to
see this the key point here is that the
function form here depends on the
observed Y i if it's 1 it has a
different form than when it's 0 and if
you think about when we want to maximize
this community we're basically going to
want this probability to be as high as
possible when the label is 1 that means
the document is in table 1 but if the
document is not we're going to maximize
this value and what's going to happen is
actually to make this value as small as
possible because they sum to 1 when it
maximizes this one it's equivalent to
minimize this one so you can see
basically the if we maximize the
conditional I can holder we're going to
basically try to make the prediction on
the training data as accurately as
possible so as in other cases when
computing the maximum likelihood
estimator basically let's go find a beta
value a set of beta values that would
maximize this conditional likelihood and
this again then gives us a standard
optimization problem in this case it can
be also solved in many ways Newton's
method is a popular way to solve this
problem there are other methods as well
but in the end we'll we're going to get
the set of beta values once we have the
beta values then we have a way to find
the scoring function to help us classify
a document right so what's the function
where it's this one see if we have all
the beta values already known all we
need is we'll compute to the excise for
that document and then plugging those
values that will give us estimated
probability that the document is in
Wow okay so so much for logistical
regression
let's also introduce another
discriminative classifier
called K nearest neighbors now in
general I should say there are many such
approaches and thorough introduction to
all of them is clearly beyond the scope
of this course and you should take a
machine learning course or read more
about machine learning to know about
them here I just want to include a basic
introduction to some of the most
commonly used classifies since you might
use them often for text calculation
so the second classify is called K
nearest neighbors in this approach we're
going to also estimate the conditional
probability of label given data but in a
very different way so the idea is to
keep all the training examples and then
once we see a text object that we want
to classify we're going to find the K
examples in the training set and I'm
also similar to this text object
basically this is defined in the
neighbors of this text object in the
training data set so once we find we
found the neighborhood and found the
objects that are close to the object
we're interested in classifying and it
said we have found the K nearest
neighbors that's why this method is
called K nearest neighbors and then
we're going to assign the category
that's most common in these neighbors
basically we're going to allow these
neighbors who vote for the category of
the object that were interested in
classifying now that means if most of
them have a particular category and it's
a category one they were going to say
this kernel objector will have category
this approach accounts will be improved
by considering the distance of a
neighbor and at the current object
basically we can assume a close neighbor
we have more saying about the category
of this object so we can have okay gives
us a neighbor more influence on the vote
and we can take away to some of their
votes based on the distances
but the general idea is look at the
neighborhood and then try to assess
category paid based on the categories of
the neighbors intuitively this makes a
lot of sense but mathematically this can
also be regarded as a way to directly
estimate the conditional probability of
label given theta that is P of Y given X
now I'm going to explain this intuition
in a moment but before we proceed let me
emphasize that we do need a similarity
function here in order for this work I
note that in nine days classifier we did
not need a similarity function and in
logistic regression we did not talk
about the similarity function either but
here we explicitly requires a similarity
function now this similarity function
actually is a good opportunity for us to
inject any of our insights about the
features basically effective features
are those that would make the objects
that are in the same category look more
similar but distinguish objects in
different categories so the design of
the similarity function is closely tied
to the design of the features in
logistic regression and other class
files so let's illustrate how ok and
then works suppose we have a lot of
training instances here and I have
colored them in differently and tissue
just different categories now suppose we
have a new object in the center that we
want to classify so according to this
approach we're gonna find the neighbors
let's first think of a special case of
finding just one neighbor the closest
neighbor now in this case if the let's
assume the closest neighbor is the box
filled with diamonds and so then we're
going to say well since this is in this
object that is in category of diamonds
let's say then we're going to say well
we're going to assign the same category
- our tensor object but let's also look
at the another possibility of finding a
larger neighborhood all right so let's
think about the four neighbors in this
case we're going to include a lot of
other started the filled boxes in red or
pink right so in this case now we're
going to notice that among the four
neighbors they arrived with three
neighbors in a different category so if
we take a boat then we'll conclude the
object is actually of a different
category so this both illustrates how K
nearest neighbor works and also
illustrates some potential problems of
this class while basically the results
might depend on the cake and indeed a
case important parameter to optimize now
you can intuitively imagine if we have a
lot of neighbors around and subject them
and then we'll be okay because we have a
lot of neighbors who help us decide the
categories but if we have only a few
then the decision may not be reliable so
on the one hand we want to find more
neighbors right and then we have more
votes but on the other hand as we try to
find the more neighbors we actually
could risk on getting neighbors that are
not really similar to this instance they
might be actually far away as you try to
get more neighbors so although you get
more neighbors to vote but those
neighbors aren't necessary so helpful
because they are not very similar to the
objective so the parameter still has to
be set empirically and typically you can
optimize such a plan that by using
cross-validation basically you're going
to separate that your training data into
two parts and then you're going to use
one part to actual help you choose the
plan that k here or some other
parameters in other class files and then
you're going to assume this number that
works well on your training set would be
actually the best for your future data
so as I mentioned that Kanan can be
actually regarded as a estimate of
conditional probability of Y given X and
that's why we put this in the category
of discriminative approaches to the key
assumption that we made in this approach
is that the distribution of the label
given the document of probability of a
category given document for example
probability of Cena I given document D
is locally smooth and that just means we
can assume that that this probability is
the same for all the documents in this
reading I are here and suppose we draw a
neighborhood and we're going to assume
in this neighborhood since that there
are instances instances are very similar
we're going to assume that the
conditional distribution of the label
given the data would be roughly the same
if T is not different very different
than Hamilton assume that the
probability of theta given D would be
also similar and so that's a very key
assumption and that that's that's
actually important assumption that would
allow us to do a lot of machine learning
but in reality whether this is true of
course would depend on how we define
similarity because neighborhood is
largely determined by our similarity
function if our similarity function
captures objects that do follow similar
distributions then this assumption is
okay but for our similarity function
could not capture that obviously this
assumption would be a problem and then
the classifier would not be accurate
okay let's proceed with this assumption
then what we are saying is that in order
to estimate the probability of category
team on a document we can try to
estimate the probability of the category
given that in high region now this has
the benefit of course of bringing
additional their opponents to help us
estimate this probability and so this is
precisely idea of cainan basically now
we can use the known categories of all
the documents in this region to estimate
this
probability and I have even gave a
formula here well you can see we just
count the topics in this region and then
normalize that by the total number of
documents in the region so the numerator
that you see here C of theta I and our
is a counter of the documents in region
R with category theta I since these are
training documents we know they are
categories we can simply count but how
many times have you ever seen spots here
how many times we have seen signs etc
and then the denominator is just a total
number of documents the training
opponents in this region so this gives
us a rough estimate of which category is
most popular in this neighborhood and
we're going to assign the popular
category to our data object since it's a
force into this region
you